there's a lot of different ways that
like the first moment of generosity can
completely crack you open yeah it's a
documented phenomenon that generosity
can be one of the first first steps you
can take to improve your own mental
health and even if you would wanted to
consider that a selfish way or a self
oriented way yeah and yet it's also one
of the last tools that people talk about
talk
about all right everybody welcome back
to the art of accomplishment where we
expl living the life you want with
enjoyment and ease let's talk generosity
years ago I visited Iran I was invited
there for a base jumping trip I've like
lived and traveled in more than 40
countries and one of the things that
I've noticed is that the cultures that
are the happiest also tend to be the
cultures where generosity is really
high and in Iran that turned out to be
more true than almost anywhere I'd ever
been and I was blown away and and in one
instance which I wrote about recently we
can drop that in the show notes but I
found
myself in a home stay in teron yeah and
this family took me in they made me
dinner I found myself at one point lying
on the floor playing Jenga with the
daughters of the family while the father
of the family was sitting on my back
giving me a back massage like a cat just
like purr purr and I'm like apparently
this is just what happened you know from
the day that I got there from the mo
moment I got off the plane I had people
whispering to the back of my ear as I
walked by welcome to Iran we are not our
government we we welcome you here we
love you here thank you thank you for
coming I'm so happy you're here and
people would come up off the street and
just give me a hug or shake my hand and
yeah welcome me just welcome to Iran was
a thing that I heard all the time yeah
it's interesting the a lot of
the cultures in the Middle East that my
experience that I've experienced are
incredibly generous I remember when I
was in Saudi
Arabia I went over to a house of a
wealthy man and I admired something and
he wanted to send me home with it and it
was like some very expensive thing and I
was like oh that's cool I was whatever I
was 10 years old okay then you get it if
you like it you get it and just such a
part of their culture yeah I think often
times the people who are people who are
deeply generous especially in their
Homeland lives especially in their
interpersonal lives there's a lot of
there's a lot of Happiness there's a lot
of Joy there even when they have very
little perhaps especially when they have
very little man perhaps yeah it's like
the less you have the bigger the
proportion of the generosity you can
feel when you give the little that you
have yeah so many parables are shaped in
that way yeah like The Gift of the
Magi yeah it's true right if you're a
billionaire giving away $100,000 is
isn't as substantial as if you're a
beggar giving away a
meal yeah yeah though it's not only
about the amount it's also the context
and it's also what it means for you and
what it means for them and the impact
that it has and ways that it breaks down
your identity and your ego to do so
there's a lot of different ways that
like the first moment of generosity can
completely crack you open yeah it's a
documented phenomenon that generosity
can be one of the first first steps you
can take to improve your own mental
health and even if you would wanted to
consider that a selfish way or a self
oriented way and yet it's also one of
the last tools that people talk about
talk about or want to bring out or or
it's talked about but it's kind of
considered like yeah yeah you you can do
that but also you can do something
practical
right yeah well I mean the first thing
is what is generosity because there's
plenty of people who give and it's not
out of generosity
yeah right you can give out of
obligation and there's you don't get the
you don't get the benefit of generosity
by giving right you get the benefit of
generosity by being
generous I remember that there was I
think it might be in the Jewish
tradition there is the levels of
generosity and there's the level in
which everybody knows that you gave
something there's the level in which the
people who you gave it to don't know and
then there's the level in which nobody
knows what you said earlier seems to be
really true which is how much the
generosity isn't about
you how much the generosity
disintegrates your ego yeah nobody knows
about it and I'm still giving yeah
sometimes I think giving with people
knowing about it is more important
because there's a generosity of the
story that gets told there's a
generosity in the giving itself but
either way something that cracks your
heart open when you're giving
something that's not because you're
supposed to because you have
to and the other thing that I notice is
generosity comes on many levels I think
in our
society we see generosity as
money but there's a we value money so we
see generosity through the the lens of
what we value yeah for others it would
be different yeah there's a so there's a
guy Thiago Forte he runs a building a
second brain
and he is one of the most uh generous
people as far as admiration goes he's so
generous in his admiration he looks at
somebody finds something to admire about
them what you see is that the people
around him when he admires
them they they light up it's it's like
they've been given a gift way better
than a couple hundred bucks right
they're just poof and they have this
this sensation of oh like I've been
given to and they they step into their
best
so there's that's one you can have like
the generosity of
admiration my my friend Fred he has this
ability to be really generous in the way
that he sees people
so he he's an amazing individual and
he's restored all these rivers and he's
worked with all these Indian tribes
before
and just an amazing human being
Godfather of Esme and um as a matter of
fact he's taking her in to hopy into a
hopy canyon to help restore this Canyon
this summer and that's part of his
generosity right there it but his
generosity is to allow people to be seen
so when he walks into a city or a an
Indian tribe the way he listens is
generous the way he shows up with
pictures of the land Circa 150 years ago
that you know he'll find that print and
he'll bring that so the like this is
what's this is what we're after there's
a generosity to the way that he sees
people which is unbelievably amazing and
if you get to hang around with him yeah
and and when he gives financially which
he does too quite a bit he gives in a
way that people feel seen in it he
doesn't give like oh here's some money
if he's working with say an Indian
family that doesn't have a lot of money
he'll see that the craft that they do
and he'll buy the Craft he'll buy the
buy
and and this thing that you made is
special to me and he sees them in that
he's not generous in such a way where
he's putting himself above which is
another way that people are
generous I'll help those people out
because I'm better than them kind of
they pour them I'll help them out right
which typically ends up creating
dynamics that aren't actually helpful
for everybody in the end in a lot of
cases yeah not all cases it can still
work out well but yeah I like the Jewish
tradition says there just seems to be
levels of generosities and yeah and and
you can tell which level you're on by
how much it breaks your heart open like
you're just like oh that that's a whole
different level of generosity if it's
breaking your heart open I have a friend
his name is
beu and he always shows up with a gift
but he for years didn't collect a
paycheck he lived completely on what he
called the gift economy so he would do
something MH and then people would pay
him or not for the stuff that he
did and you think just do donation based
career yeah but it's like you think
that's kind of hippie but the thing he
would do is like he'd be the CFO of a
company for whoa yeah he was a CFO of
two different companies and they're like
what do you want to get paid and he was
like it's a gift economy wow pay me what
you think it's
worth wow yeah yeah that breaks my brain
yeah it does doesn't it right you think
this is this is guys like making jewelry
and selling that Burning Man or
something but no he's he was the CFO of
a real estate organization and a I mean
that's that's Burning Man ethos in the
wild in the wild you know my my wife
Alexa has uh has this way of telling the
parable of uh like Jesus on the the
mount with The Sermon on the Mount where
the fishes and the bread yes yeah where
you know that the way that I was taught
that that Parable is that there was like
two fishes and a loaf of bread and then
Jesus waved a magic wand and then
suddenly there was a bunch of food for
everybody
and the way that
Alexa's that story is that everybody had
already brought enough food just for
them and they were keeping it kind of
close to their chests because they're
out in the desert and this guy Jesus
talks for hours and hours you never know
what's going to
happen and so there was already enough
food yeah but it seemed scarce because
people were holding it close and so what
Jesus did is simply pass out the food
that he and his disciples the people
close to him had which was seemed like
little and then others did it and others
did it and then before you knew it there
actually was plenty because once you
opened the tap of gifting turns out
there was enough yeah and I really love
that that framing of it so there's lots
of forms of being generous and but the
depth of the generosity is in
the how much you are self-defining on it
or how much your ego is yeah cracking I
remember I was in
Nicaragua I'm with this Navy
SEAL from the 1970s and he's just chain
smoking and drinking beer and he was
such a great guy and he was basically
dedicated his life to saving Turtles but
nobody in this part of Nicaragua was
saving Turtles but him he also built a
house that was pretty much a fortress he
had
clearly some some things just but
incredibly generous to Turtles mhm
and so I'm I'm there I'm hanging out
with him and I run across a whole bunch
of Canadians who are partying on the
beach and I said oh what are you all
doing here it was clearly not very many
non- nicaraguans in this area M and
they're like oh we took a whole bunch of
clothing from Canada and we're bringing
it here so that we could give it to the
poor people here and I was like oh cool
so what are you what are you doing for
trade they're like no nothing we're like
we have everything we're just giving it
away to them and I was I was oh so it
seems to me that you're just teaching
them that they they can't do stuff for
themselves you're saying to them that
you're not capable of taking care of
yourself we need to take care of you and
they're like well what could we ask in
return I was like I know this guy down
the street he's saving Turtles you could
ask for them to help save the turtles in
exchange for the
clothing m
and and then they get to give something
there's there's the yeah they get to
give exactly the idea is that the person
who's receiving somehow like that's the
gift as if it's not the giving that's
the gift yeah my experience is giving
feels just as good if not sometimes
better than receiving right because it's
a deeply empowering act yeah that's what
I think people miss about giving if you
take that
sermon oh it's empowering to go oh I'm
going to share this because there's
going to be plenty it's very
disempowering to go I have to hold on to
this because if I don't I'm going to I'm
going to die or I'm going to be hungry
right like that is and then to be given
something sometimes it's quite lovely
and sometimes it's very
disempowering right I mean so what what
do most people want a paycheck for if
not to be able and feel unable to give
their time and love and attention to
their family and the things that they
care about about the people that they
want to give to it's it's almost as
though like I think it is as though that
which we want to receive we want to
receive in such a way that gives us the
opportunity to feel giving not that that
opportunity is required by money but
there's I think even that that logic is
in it the the opportunity to help with
the turtles and receive clothing yeah
it's like I'm connected now correct in
in something bigger than myself and
something you said about Fred you were
like this is one kind of generosity is
in generosity in seeing yeah I'm curious
if that's one kind of generosity or if
maybe that's like at the core of
generosity my story about generosity in
Iran was um so my dad was stayed there
after they shut down the
airports they opened them up we flew out
in a crazy
manner five of us on two seats three
kids two moms and then my dad stayed and
at some point as the story
goes um
my father was in the house with the
driver the driver's name was
rustam and he was zor asrian so he
wasn't Muslim and there was the the re
of
them yeah the Revolution was Muslim for
the most part
and they came they stormed the house to
take my
dad and um you know there was all the
hostages that were taken and
whatnot and
RAM generously risked
himself stopped them and said hey
knowing he could get in trouble knowing
he could get beaten knowing whatever
could happen he said wait wait wait wait
wait you need to call the the
university probably where the person you
knew was going to school at the time go
call the University and talk to the
professors because his wife
was taught at the University they know
her and so they're sitting around the
kitchen table apparently smoking
cigarettes machine guns and they call
that somebody says yes let him go and my
dad drives out through
Afghanistan rustam that's a generosity
that
is most of us don't even get a chance to
experience that level of generosity
yeah right and then most likely my dad
at the time mean that came from probably
years of my dad being generous with
rustom never looking down on
him it was something that my dad could
do in a way
that I still admire yeah I'm now seeing
the linkage from generosity not just to
being seen or seeing but also to
respect there's a there's a respect in
it there's a respect in it isn't there
yeah and if it's done without respect
then it doesn't have the same yeah juice
with my daughter for instance she had
she was traveling through
Europe some part of Spain had her
passport
stolen and she came to me later and she
said
how there was one act of offense led to
her experiencing 30 acts of
generosity people giving her shoes
people paying for her trip to get to the
Barcelona so that she could re get the
new passport and a woman giving her a a
bed in her fairy ride and like just
endless moments of
generosity when somebody saw somebody
else in need wow yeah and for her she
said it was it was hell but it was
totally worth it just because it was the
first time that she got to
experience that kind of generosity from
Humanity you know we recently talked
about my brother he has terminal brain
cancer yeah and as of today he's in
paliative care in in the hospital same
hospital that he and I were both born
in but basically he's dying and they're
caring for him okay um he's
got uh internal bleeding PM embolism I
don't even know how brain cancer leads
to all the stuff that's going on for him
but it's systemic and severe and he's
still there he's able to speak yeah and
be spoken to and so over the past days
I've been on the phone with him and my
mom my sister and my dad and we've just
been crying together
sharing sharing not even stories anymore
but just sharing love yeah
and the way that this relates to
generosity is that my brother's
wife uh posted on Facebook recently to
update everybody on his current status
yeah and she said if you want to support
us if you want to offer any kind of
assistance support we really love that
we appreciate it what we ask is that you
go out and do it into the
world give it to somebody donate a book
to a library bring somebody
cookies and what I've been seeing happen
in the wake of that just in the past
couple of days has been Earth shattering
for me yeah
well first of all
it's uh is in it's incredibly generous
of
her like if we if we're defining
generosity as being seen that the the
helplessness of having someone you love
die and you can't do anything about it
yeah
like and and her saying here here's
something you can do yeah and I just I
in a moment I saw that post I hit
reshare you know like yeah this is I
want this out there and within a couple
hours somebody posted that somebody
somebody in this community posted that
they
had they had paid off the loan of a
single mother in India with a dis
disabled
kid in Scott's name and then I got to
pass that back and my sister got to tell
Scott and he
cried and and then I was just speaking
on the drive here to do this recording I
was talking to Carrie my sister and she
said that one of her acts was that
she she she brought cookies to a couple
of homeless people under a bridge nearby
where she
lives and one of them was homeless she
found one of them is homeless because he
got brain
cancer and he lost his
home and he had nobody to care for him
he didn't have any back stop and he's
under a bridge with brain cancer
my brother's in
a hospital with health insurance and a
family and people giving around the
world on his behalf and this person's
under a
bridge and you know cookies what the
do cookies mean right what what are
cookies but to
be I can only imagine to be seen in that
way the way that whatever when my sister
learned that piece of what was going on
for him yeah
whatever happened for her and him in
that moment was worth far more than
cookies
right
yeah something something that my brother
apparently said after hearing some of
these
stories is he's
like yeah you know there's a million
opportunities to be generous every day
but there's also a million ways that
you've been generous that you haven't
even
seen a million acts of generosity that
you haven't even
recognized as well as the opportunities
that's a crazy
one that's a crazy one if I consider
that for a minute this has been
happening to me a lot
recently you know people get on the
calls and they
uh thanks for doing this it's really
generous of you it never feels like
generosity to me m
yeah I mean we don't have to do things
for free we don't have to do the podcast
for free like I get that but it it
doesn't feel like generosity and I'm I'm
wondering now how much of that is me not
letting it in not letting the gener let
letting my own generosity in and how
much of it is
that I I can't think of another way to
do it I feel like generosity is only
there if there's a choice to it
if that makes any sense like I can't
imagine not doing this not doing what
I'm
doing and what what is a choice that we
recognize or that we don't recognize
like something that feels automatic to
me now may feel automatic now as a
result of the choices that I've made to
become the person I am now so abely oh
for sure I remember when I first started
this work I did feel
generous it doesn't now yeah now it
feels like oh this is it's like living
on purpose
it's to not do it feels would feel
painful
yeah to not have my first priority be
making a living
by supporting people in their
authenticity yeah so on the one hand we
have the recognition of all the ways we
have been generous and haven't seen it
and then on the other hand just like
Esme the recognition of the generosity
we've received that we
haven't recognized that one in itself is
amazing like my daughter went to school
there's a and there's all these teachers
who taught her there's generosity in
each one of
them to become a teacher for a living
there's a generosity in that maybe they
didn't even recognize it my daughter
recognized him as good people but she
probably didn't recognize it the way she
recognized it while she
was getting help with a pair of
[Music]
shoes trying to regain her
passport right if I really let that in
for a
second like our business wouldn't be
here if it wasn't for the generosity of
a lot of people
you cat behind the camera
yeah it's it it's a bit overwhelming to
allow that full experience in
yeah and sure as I didn't
recognize I didn't recognize the
generosity of my brother's cancer when I
first heard about it
yeah the generosity that he didn't die
in a car accident that very day the
generosity
that I've gotten to say goodbye to
him yeah a number of times and every
time I've said goodbye to him I walked
away and I was like oh there was a way I
could have I was still holding it
together man I was still trying to be
you know like the strong little brother
for the big brother in some way and I
got to process that each time and like
the last time I saw him in person this
time last
week as I said goodbye I got to allow
myself just to cry and
just a
fully let go which gave him the
opportunity to feel
seen where he's barely able to move his
arms just lift them and kind of do one
of
these and for me to come in and like
like I wanted like I had wanted the
previous time to actually be able to cry
on his
shoulder and have him hold
me yeah
and have my mom hold us the way she did
yesterday on the the
call she prayed with us
and it's the first time I've
unironically prayed with my mom in
decades maybe that should be the highest
ACT of
generosity it's not giving at all it's
just
being with
somebody without needing anything to
change yeah with my conception of
what prayer even means cuz yeah
like what what it felt to me there was
simply the three of us letting go
of everything in the way and
surrendering to being there with each
other
yeah and I'm deely grateful for
that that's a good place to end
yeah thanks everybody for listening to
the art of accomplishment
[Music]